PublicationsReceived
Books listed below that are marked with a
† have been selected for review in a future
issue, and reviewers have been assigned to
each.
Authors and publishers who wish their
publications to be considered for review in
Computational Linguistics should send a copy
to the book review editor, Graeme Hirst, De-
partment of Computer Science, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Canada M5S3G4. All rel-
evant books received will be listed, but not
all can be reviewed. Technical reports (other
than dissertations) will not be listed or re-
viewed. Authors should be aware that some
publishers will not send books for review
(even when instructed to do so); authors
wishing to inquire as to whether their book
has been received for review may contact the
bookrevieweditor.
Readerswhowishtobeconsideredasbook
reviewers for the journal should contact the
book review editor, outlining their qualiﬁca-
tions, by e-mail at gh@cs.toronto.edu or at the
addressabove.
TheOxfordGuideto
PracticalLexicography
B.T.SueAtkinsandMichaelRundell
(InternationalComputerScienceInstitute
andMacmillanPublishers)
OxfordUniversityPress,2008,xii+540pp;
hardbound,ISBN978-0-19-927770-4,£85.00;
paperbound,ISBN978-0-19-927771-1,
£29.99
SenseandSensitivity:HowFocus
DeterminesMeaning
DavidI.BeaverandBradyZ.Clark
(UniversityofTexasatAustinand
NorthwesternUniversity)
Wiley-Blackwell(Explorationsinsemantics
series,editedbySusanRothstein),
2008,xiv+307pp;hardbound,
ISBN978-1-4051-1263-5,£50.00, €67.50;
paperbound,ISBN978-1-4051-1264-2,£24.99,
€33.80
LinkingupContrastiveandLearnerCorpus
Research
Ga¨etanelleGilquin,SzilviaPapp,andMar´ıa
Bel´enD´ıez-Bedmar(editors)
(Universit´ecatholiquedeLouvain,
UniversityofPortsmouth,andUniversidad
deJa´en)
Rodopi(Languageandcomputers,
editedbyChristianMairetal.,volume66),
2008,xi+282pp;hardbound,
ISBN978-90-420-2446-5, €60.00
Phraseology:An
InterdisciplinaryPerspective
SylvianeGrangerandFannyMeunier
(editors)
(Universit´ecatholiquedeLouvain)
JohnBenjaminsPublishingCompany,
2008,xxviii+422pp;hardbound,
ISBN978-90-272-3246-5,$188, €125.00
†SpeechandLanguageProcessing
(secondedition)
DanielJurafskyandJamesH.Martin
(StanfordUniversityandUniversity
ofColoradoatBoulder)
PearsonPrenticeHall,2009,xxxi+988pp;
hardbound,ISBN978-0-13-187321-6,
$115.00
EnglishSyntax:AnIntroduction
Jong-BokKimandPeterSells
(KyungHeeUniversityandUniversity
ofLondon)
Stanford,CA:CSLIPublications(CSLI
lecturenotes,number185),2008,xiii+296pp;
hardbound,ISBN978-1-57586-567-6,$70.00,
£36.50;paperbound,ISBN978-1-57586-568-3,
$32.50,£17.00
109


