Brieﬂy Noted
Essential Programming for Linguistics
Martin Weisser
(UniversityofBayreuth)
EdinburghUniversityPress(Edinburgh
AdvancedTextbooksinLinguistics,
editedbyPeterAckemaand
MitsuhikoOta);x+174pp;hardbound
ISBN978-0-7486-3855-0,$115.00,£70.00;
paperbound,ISBN978-0-7486-3856-7,
$29.50,£19.99
This book is of only marginal use as a Perl
primer for linguists or as a university text-
book.Thickwithexplicatorytextin10-point
Minion font, some chapters, such as that
onreferencesandmodules,areconsequently
verydifﬁculttoworkthrough,andarewrit-
ten in sometimes abstruse language (“The
otherthingissomethingtodowithhowwe
usefunctions,”p.55),whichfurtherimpedes
fullcomprehension.
The book’s exercises become increasingly
arduous (number 24, for example, asks the
readertobuildabasicconcordancerusingthe
localizer“my,”whichisnotexplaineduntil
20pageslater),andreadersmustthereforere-
sorttodownloadingWeisser’ssolutionsand
tryingtodecipherthecodethemselves.Fur-
thermore, these solutions provide programs
thatareusuallytoobasicforgenuinelinguis-
tic research, such as a dictionary-compiler
intowhichtheusermusttypeeveryentryby
hand.BecauseWeissermakeslittlereference
to other work, readers leave this book with
thediscouragingfeelingthatnousablePerl
codeexistsforlinguists,andthattheyarestill
unabletowritetheirown.
Thebook’sgreatestshortcomingsareinthe
areas of subroutines, modules, and objects.
Making only a single passing reference to
CPANinhischapteronmodularity,Weisser
refers to only three modules (pp. 110–112)
but never provides a functioning program
thatusesthem.BecauseoneofPerl’sgreatest
strengthsisinthereusabilityofitsmodules,
itisdisappointingtoﬁndsolittleonthemin
thisbook.
Objects are also a great strength of Perl,
butWeisserdismissestheminadensefour-
pagechapterwhichends,asusual,withthe
acknowledgment that the examples he has
providedcanonlybemadeusefulbywriting
aprogram“which,however,Ishallleaveto
youasafurtherexercise”(p.120).
Linguists seeking a primer or classroom
textbookonPerlareprobablystillbestserved
byMichaelHammond’sProgramming for Lin-
guists (Blackwell, 2003), which, although it
hasslightlyfewerexamplesoflinguistically
relevant code, brings readers to about the
sameskilllevelthatWeisser’sbookdoes,and
with greater clarity.—Brian
´
O Broin, William
Paterson University
789


